automated farming vs swarm uavs
what are you doing it for
automated farming isnt easier
learn that first
so whichever you choose it will take a lot of hours
something is not there yet
the information is not there yet?
maybe
the will is not there yet
possibly
but why
ben bunu yapıcam dediğin bir şey olmalı
şu an lf daha çok çekiyo mesel
öğrencek şey daha kolay olduğu için belki de
kod ve hemen uygulayabileceğim içi
!!!
kod ve hemen uygulayabileceğim için!
mekanik şeyleri hemen uygulayamıyosun
ben oturup şimdi kod kısmını yazsam bile
uav uçurmayı öğrenmek marifet ilk noktada
6 ay veriyolarmış
olay iyi
ama ASIL OLAY mekanik de değil
ASIL OLAY: Problemden başlamadı bu ikisi de
LF problemden başladığı için daha iyi
veya nftler opportunityden başladığı için daha iyi


1. Focus all your abilities on obtaining assets
Know that employment is no way to make money and the only way to financial freedom is through your own business doesnt matter how small you start
Assets: Business that doesn't require your attention, stocks, bonds, real estate, IOUs, royalties (art, patents etc.)
Never let go of your assets


The simple truth is that people are not manufacturing
There are a very limited amount of quality manufacturers and every new one can be seen as long as it provides the same quality
Yarin bi gun injection molding makinalari su bunu da biz yapmaliyiz

Financial education books are required

As long as you can sell what you make QUICKLY you can scale up very fast too
Become your own boss as fast as possible, It is the only way to make your life truly yours
And each minute you spend slaving away for anyone else you are letting go of your own destiny just a little bit more
Teams of educated, crafty Turks sent abroad
Always trading with each other, putting out quality products and winning against local competition.
With BUREAU, dominate the Bigg, teknofest and tesvik market
Sectors of Urban Economy?
https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.brookings.edu/research/the-new-urban-economy-opportunities-and-challenges/%3famp
Old urban economy de lazim

Edison was not first to invent, he was first to market!

Turks have high power distance index, i.e. subordinates won't question or input to their superiors
this is dangerous and shold be addressed promptly

Don't listen to the voice at the back of your head that says you should rest a little

Every societal, family based, cultural, financial, luck based advantage that cultivates an Outlier can be offset by the sheer hard work of another Outlier who has access to none of those things.

Reremember Yes Theory
Push yourself out of your comfort zone

Businesses with pricing power
tshirt üreten biri daha ucuza benzer tshirti yapanla yarışamaz
iphone ama istediği fiyatı koysun insanlar daha ucuz diye başka bir telefon almıcak
Build a CAPITAL LIGHT BUSINESS
Doesn't require capital reinvestment!!!

Devlet destekli girişim ekosistemi kursak?
mesela benim girişimimi desteklediler
ben esc, motor üretiiyıorum
yarınki girişime bu lazım olunca ben vericem seve seve mesela üretim fiyatına
gibi gibi
birbirini destekleyecek girişimler

startupta failing is not an option olduğunu düşünüoyurm
çok daha ciddi
ama sınavlarda çalışabileceğimi ve %100 verdikten sonra pişman olmıcağımı bildiğim gibi
startupta da metotudunu ve yolunu bildikten sonra
yapıp yine de başarısız olursam öğrendiklerimi alıp bir daha denerim
bilerek girebilmek işe marifet
mentorlar eğitimler bu yüzden önemli

Piyasaya girmeden kontrolu halletmemissen bile droneu yapmis olmal lazim %100
do a little bit of pre research to learn what you need to do
for example
By dividing each task into tasks that can be done in a few hours in 1 day (since you have a life too)
You can then place these daily length tasks into your journal
And as they are the appropriate length they will get done
also this allows for only some days in a week to be assigned tasks due to other days' external tasks
and also allows for mix and matching of tasks from different projects
notice that this way you dont feel the need to start and finish a 7 day project in 7 consecutive days
!!!

Girişim programlarına başvuracak kadar hiçbir şey yapmamışım daha
pre seed deyiz
insanlar iş görüp başvuruyor
Trust your gut?
My gut tells me you didnt do shit yet
go do shit
then come back

Where does creating money turn to real inflation
If there were no international trade we could just agree on prices as a nation and there would be no inflation
1 phone = 1000 breads
What happens when a new phone is made can we keep this up
What is 1 unit of currency
Water?
Bread?
Shouldnt have a smaller denomination
Cheapest thing in the market is 1 unit
What happens if i synthesise a ton of gold in a lab?
Where does it become a problem

ÇÖZÜMÜN ARKASINDAKİ SORUN DOĞRU TANIMLANMAMAIŞSA O ÇÖZÜM ÇÖP OLUYOR

Otomasyon insanla ayni seviyede yaptigi surece kullanilmaz
Insanin yapamayacagi kadar iyi seviyede yaptiginda kullanilir
O zaman till in robotik tarafi kurtarmaz
Hizmet tarafi kurtarabilir
CNC mesela cok daha iyi ua da hizli yapiyo

üretici ,eğitimli, deneyimli, çalışkan, şanslı olucan
kişi, aile, şirket, ülkeyi birleştir

Due to the practicality of turks we can crank out the highest quality engineers with the right investments

Dont be shy start from 2M
How would you grow it
Also
What is a trust fund how does it work

I am not a farmer
I dont know the first thing about farming
yet I am arrogant enough to think that I can do it better than anyone
It is not my forte
There are libraries of information I need to know
most of which that our farmers dont know
yet most of which still unknown to farming engineers too
It is a deep deep area
I stick to robotics
I was born to build robots
Then BUILD ROBOTS
What robots do we need
we need robots to replace people
which people

Tech Sectors
Consumer Electronics
Software: Infrastructure: Cloud etc.
Software: Platforms: Browser, OS, social media
Software: Apps: Games, Spotify, Skype etc
General Purpose Tech Giants= Google, Windows, Apple, Amazon, Facebook
Startup ecosystem lazım, tax laws lax olmalı, geography de localin büyük olmalı. Yunanistanda çıksa 10M insana ne yapcak adam
Tüm Avrupa'ya yapsan da 30 dile çevirmen lazım önce
People look for exits, so minecraft and skype gets sold to Microsoft
You should be striving to build giants.
Notice that cars, planes or even microchips are not considered tech
These are not tech companies these are industries
So what is the difference?
SCALABILITY
You can scale your software or design based business practically overnight
But it take A LOT of time to scale up any industry based sector
So it is VERY logical to start in TECH
Robotics in general can be both tech (DJI) or industry (UAV)
It is divided depending on the end user
If your end user is ordinary people you are more inclined to Tech, if it is a government or other industrialists you are in industry
Then, IS THERE ANY WAY WE CAN BUILD A SOLID TECH FIRM OUT OF ROBOTICS
OR SOMETHING SIMILAR TO ROBOTICS
Bots maybe?
If you are too careful your whole life, it can all become the grind
So how do we exponantiate the grind? You use leverage.
Research people who become rich in their lifetimes

Fameless rich people without physical talent!!!
Web site maker olarak is yapmis en basta
Web site diye bi sey yok adam akilli
Cok yeni bi teknolojisinin onculugunden en basta para kazanmis
Ama self emloyment still doesnt do it
Building a digital business is the most responsive model you can pursue
At least it was
It s still digital now
But it used to be websites back then
Whats it now
You are on the right track with the gist etc.
Automation is the deal

kurs odaklı dersler, o hocadan aldığın mentorluğun veya feedbackin yerini tutmuyor daha hypea doğru gidebiliyor
buna dikkat edin

Bu saatten sonra füzeden kaçmak söz konusu değil adam M 12 ile giden füze yapmış sen zorlıcan nereye zorlıcan uçağı
Onun yerine görünmez uçak yapıcan artık radar dalgası metamateryal filan direkt içinden geçip gidicek
Sektöre girip hangi parça düzgün üretilmiyo görüp, çıkıp onu üreten alt yüklenici olcan.

componentlerin çoğunu biz üretirsek istediğimiz yere kuruluruz
mümkün olduğunca bütün aviyonikler bizden çıksın.
PCB CNC çok kritik burda!!!!
Her şeyi satın almaya çok alışmışız
En küçük şeyleri bile
Biz bunları üreticez
bizden satın alırsanız iyi
ama kendiniz yaparsanız daha da iyi
PCB CNC'nin en küçük işleyebileceği path kalınlığı olacak bunu spec olarak ver.

Fastlane for mentality
Mentorink for slowlane connection and mindset bridging from slow to fastlane
%1 of people are still 80 million people
Think that in the whole world everybody was working normal jobs
Except the nation of Turkey
Imagine that the population of Turkey was overseeing the whole world s trade, production and new business creation
For that amount of a population you would start thinking these guys are getting lucky and start thinking these guys are teaching each other something we dont know
And that is precisely what happens
These people have a different mindset and they improve themselves in areas that will allow them to establish businesses and start ups.
And just as for most of you getting a job is normal and you try to get the best job you ll love
For these people building a business and developing and selling products is normal and they try to build the best busineess they ll love
(One of the main differentiators is a perception of solving a problem themselves and selling it as opposed to solve problems for someone else)
3. Design thinking of stanford which has some of the best advice on problem deduction and firing up your startup. Prototyping, getting feedback etc.
And lastly 4. Explore different possible paths to the fastlane. Inventor, digital entrepreneur, businessman, physical entrepreneur etc etc
Mumkun oldugunca cok kategori ver
Is secer gibi business secmelerine yardimci ol

A single person business will start requiring other people to improve the business with changing times. This will generate more revenue overall but you as the founder and the owner will have to start managing two people which reduces the passivity of the business. At this point it might be more logical to sell the business in order to not let go of your free time. At some instances you might indeed want to hire new people and make more money if you would like to spend your free time at your business anyways.
Creating new businesses/startups has nothing to do with loving the subject of that particular business. You as a person would have the job of businessman i.e. creating new businesses. You need to love solving new problems, producing better products or creating new ideas.
bir işin ne kadar büyük bir kısmını yapabiliyosan veya o işi ne kadar çok yapabiliyosan o kadar büyük bir şirket oluyosun
let me explain
eğer ben kahve servisi robotu yapıcaksam
ve robotik kısmını outsourcelarsam
kar marjinim baya düşer
ama hem kahve tarifini hem robotik kısmını yaparsam baya çok kar ederim
başka bi yandan
tcc mesela sadece çip yapıyor
çip dizaynı yapmıyor
ama o kadar çok kişinin çipini apıyor ki işi ne kadar çok yapıyor çok kar ediyor
arm sadece dizayn yapıyor
işin büyük bir kısmını yapıyor ama işi çok yapmyor
intel hem dizayn yapıyor (işin büyük bir kısmı) hem de üretim yapıyor (işi çok yapıyor)

how to become a billionaire
ilk businessını sector multplierla leveragelayabilirsin eğer daha büyütmek istediğin bir şey değilse, o multiplierla satıp istediğin işi kurup milyarı görebilirsin
minimum viable product: Çalışan en basit product : ÇOK ÖNEMLİ, en kısa sürede çıkmalı

You MUST manufacture all your designs in house otherwise the producer will have the leverage and might try to shake you down
Look for someone smart, curious and knowladgeable in that order
like how i learnt to be
Use micro jet engines for increased weight carrying capabilities and range

Deepmind google'da çalışmak?

in medieval ties you would be a blacksmith and you would have a business. Actually whatever your job was you would have to be a business owner. The idea of working for someone until you retire is a modern concept at par with slavery.

It again takes a mechanical engineer to write code for something that is going to run in the physical world. For such programs the main code function is the dynamic analysis and the simple electronic interface. The most you might need is some control knowledge. A computer engineer is tasked with writing code for powerful software that is exclusively designed to run on computers. You dont need databases, web or kernels to build a UAV.

Think of a peaceful aim for your life
I had really gone unhinged
I genuinely believed that the world needed bad people to beat the bad people
And I was ready to find any excuse to make what I am doing justifiable for good
I am currently having a death scare
And have no idea where it s gonna go
So I vow to find a peaceful purpose for my life

İ made a vow of non violence
With an exception of protecting the lives of Turkish people in case of weaponry conflict
Oppenheimer

Just as how stuff is just worthless and all living things is all that matters, making inventions designed to kill is also a giant waste of time.
You are literally building things that shouldnt be used.
And that have no benefit to humankind.
Instead why not build things that will serve and elaviate human future and actually build stuff that will be used and you will be thanked for.

Medical swarm robotics?

You can mathematically calculate your margins and time to a billion dollars
It s a mathematically sound way to check the commandment of time and scale

You must preemptively eliminate roads that will make you 100$ max every month, like affiliate marketing, by using the commandments. Because it can trick you into thinking this is a fastlane and I am making 100$ because I am at the start.

Hangi service arealarda çok çalışan var, nasıl bunlardan biz para kazanabiliriz?

It is rewarding because it is designed to help EVERYONE!

Utopia kurmak için çalışalım hayat amacı olarak.
Factorio gibi farming sistemi kuralım

I should thinl pf coding a program that takes in what I say and responds accordingly. But another program should be able to do the footwork.
I am looking for something I can actively prototype in. (Digital iyi)

Enemy of a startup is everyone else's life.

It's better to to have 100 people who love you than to have 1 million who kinda like you. These make your business grow. (Talk with small groups of people, take feedback, resolve, make better)

Use the most efficient programming language for the job.

Do only 1 on 1s with your employees.

Daha çok para istiyorsan şirket değiştireceksin.
SEni promote etmesi demek alttan bir sürü adamı da promote etmesi demek, o zaman hepinizin baştan eğitilmesi gerekiyor. Onun yerine senin üstündeki kadroya dışarıdan birini alması çok daha efficient.

Envoyic money making? (With a numbered, trustorthy people?)

What would you do if you would live forever?

TR 	%7 Tarım
	%30 Endustri
	%63 Servis = Mainly tourism and transport
Tarım da baya büyük, endüstri de, servis de. Sonuç olarak bir şey ürettiğin sürece ekmek var.


