THE MINDSET diye bir bölüm olmalı toplasan kitap filan olması gereken bir bölüm bu, kitap gibi yazılmış

You cant produce a plane straightaway.
1. You can produce parts of a thing
2. You can produce apps or optimizations
Stocks can be identified as long term investments, that pay off in short term only with spikes and careful social engineering
3. You need to be a good engineer to design and produce products and production means.
4. It is more profitable to produce your mass production machines. Which are usually robotic arms.
5. It is also profitable to do fundamental businesses such as agriculture on a mass scale. It would be good means of money to start off by doing that as a passive income.



You find ideas, your execs find ideas, your engineers make them ideas, your engineers can also come up with ideas and will be paid for it, so you wont be milking money out of the people for your gain and the distribution of wealth will be much better since engineers will be given commissions as well.
You dont go for a social entrepreneurship
What you produce should be apocalypse proof. Aka it should be material and strong. Next year the whole internet may chrash but every single penny in my pocket will still be there while 3000 hours of dota play will suddenly have no meaning 
Always emphasize the need for a product that is not hackable. Digital and electronic components should be used at a minimum and if possible,non.


Entrepreneur
•	Firöma kuracaksasn stratejin olacak, bam diye olmaz, nasıl başlıcan, nasıl büyüycen, ne kadar sürede kaç parayla yapcan
•	Muffler kodu app vey service olcak ana kodu vermicen.
Networking önemli zaten işini iyi yapan bir avuç adam var onlar da birbirini tutuyor


Adım adım tasarım
•	Konsept tasarım: isterler, aratırma konusu, initial configuration
•	Başlangıç tasarım: Config changes, structural, aero analysis,
•	Nuts and Bolts: Nasıl üretiriz, nasıl birleştiririz her şey burada.
•	Starting weight (Lift için vs lazım tahmin et)->Kritilk performans(max load factor, lift drag, dönüş açıları, W/S, T/S)->Configuration(Şekil, boyut, ağırlık)->Better Weight (Yakıt vs. de kat.)->Performance Analizi (Simulate, prototype,test,repeat)->Optimize



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eFnV6EM-wzY&ab_channel=TidefallCapital
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-qPii5ACVYw&ab_channel=TidefallCapital




Baktim bizim ilceye nerede ne var biliyodum, tekstil yok erkekler aptal, kaliteli kumas ile evdeki kadin uretiyo ben araciyim satiyorum yapiyosun
Ortak olayi nasil islicek ortaksiz yapilmaz mi, ortakli nasil yapilir, tek ad nasil yapcan
İhale alinca 70% veriyor parayi
Alt sistem daha cok para kazandirir ana sistemden
Mesela kompozitle uretmeyi biliyorsun
Bi sey uretirsen para var ama uretebilmek mesele
Ustteki !!!
90k burcen varsa 30 acmak 30 ilk yil 30 batarsan diye
Ureten de satan da sen olcan ki kar et
Alt sistemi sen uretcen veya ana sisteme kadar da buyutcen
Ama alt sistemi almican mumkun oldukca
Burada calisirken mesela girisimciligi yapican sonra da ayagini saglam basip pergel gibi acilmak
Hobin para kazandircak hobi olcak
Baskasinin isine 13 saat ayiriyosun, kendi isine 13 saat ayirsan tas satsan bile para kazanirsin
abi onu da yapalım abi bunu da yapalım derken hiçbi şey yapamıyosun diyo
perfect is the enemy of the good olayı boğaziçinde çok




Finans, proje yonetimi, girisimcilik
Egitim cok onemli bu konularda 1
2 cevre network cok onemli
Yatirim al melek yatirim al adamin parasini batir batiriyosan da
Risk alma yani
Ya da gidicem kendi paramla parayi kiricam diyosan da yapabiliyosan ok
Yapabiliyosan
Pivottan once bi urunu zorlarsin
Boku yersin anca o zaman pivot
İs modeli nedir nasil yapilir
1-2 gun networkunu ceolugunu yap 5 gun de grindinu cto lugunu yap
Nasil sevdigim isi benefitine donusturcem diye bakican
Festival konusmaci vs.


Kendi Firman çalıştığın kadar kazandırır, başkasının firmasında o parayı da başkası kazanır
Bir ekonomik ayağını sağlama alıp sonra pergel gibi açılcan.

im giving you an opportunity to be heard
but you dont know anything to say because you dont know what you want
talent is not the most important part of this job
it s having balls
all these people would crumble the first time someone rejects one of their "brilliant" ideas
which happens all day every day
now are you gonna make anything good?
i dont know
but you sure as shit arent gonna quit until you do
all these people they would give up like almost rightaway
bcs most of them are pussies


I understand it know
how an entrepreneur's job is to imagine the future
it is not about the area
apple, windows and amazon are all the same
tesla, facebook and airbnb are all the same
like Sbari Hoca said, you need to be global to win a nobel
you need to touch everyone on the planet to build one of THE startups
technical knowledge is necessary only enough to realize your vision
facebook looked like crap by todays standards
it was the idea that counted
the convenience the want of people to use it
take today's technologies and put it in a basket
whatever you pick from it won't be the next big idea
entrepreneurs don't find ideas
they create them
an idea to touch every single person on this earth
before apple, the idea of a pc was not around
you need an idea that is revolutionary
disruptful
that will kill many industries to birth a new
the queen is dead long live the queen
DISRUPTFUL TECHNOLOGİES
3D printing
5G
AI
Robotics
As a service computing
Disruptful tech: The Innovator's Dilemma 1997, product with mass appeal
Entirely new way of getting something done
Established companies pursue incremental improvements on things they know works
Superseeds older process, product, habit
Superior attributes that are immediately obvious
warren buffetiin end year bi şey okumasından şirket seçmesi gibi öldürecek sektör seçilebilir
berkshire hathawat annual reports
I shall disrupt what I know
I know engineering
Robotics
Find Problem, solve it, sell it
(Can it be that simple)
Sub-system geliştirmek de iyi para
elektrikli motor satmak mesela marifet
Kill automotive?
Industrial Robotları diruptla?
Esnafları disruptla
amazon yapmış onu al sat yapmak yerine komisyon alarak aynı işi yapıyor.
bütün küçük esnaflar bugün batsa
onların yerine ne mağazası açmak mantıklı
"Customers can’t tell you what to do. Build what you want and then sell it after"
"Be unique and highly valuable at the same time. Then, you don’t have to compete with price, either."
Bonus Rule from Guy Kawasaki
11) Perfect your pitch
This will separate you from the pack of people who don’t “get it” and align you with the people that do “get it.”

He says that the perfect pitch deck should contain the following elements:
Use 10-20-30 model:
Use 10 slides. No more. Okay maybe two or three more. But that’s it. Slide decks are meant to get another meeting, not close a deal right then and there. You don’t need 20+ slides.
Be able to do it in 20 min. So practice and refine it until you can. There’s also almost always an unexpected problem with the projector or something, so that helps with staying on time.
Use 30 point font. It makes your content stand out and is easy to read across the room. If you can’t read it across the room, then it’s too small.
Make the background black and the text white. It stands out, “looks boss,” and is authoritative.
Integrate pictures and humor to help you display a point

Askeri operasyonları disruptla
the idea is to kill people
why do it using 100 ton planes and bombs
all you need is a correctly aimed bullet
Disrupt money
Use the engineering and robotics you know to disrupt fields that are not usually robotics oriented

How big would you dream if you knew you couldnt fail?

Why Entra?
I've always wanted to build my own company and my own inventions
It wasn't until I started interning in some of the biggest ME companies in Turkey I started having the heart for it
Firstly I saw that even the works I expected to be the most rewarding become monotonous after just 1-2 years
let alone the whole 30 years you are expected to work there
I had already started a mentoring program thanks to TEV
which was helping me build a roadmap in my mind, how to start a firm, how to manage it, who to do it with
I ve talked with engineers in these big firms that people having entrepreneural thoughts were working on their projects on the side
but I saw in my mentoring program and with some chats I had with our school's technokent enrepreneurs that entreprenuership is a full time job and it should be started as soon as possible
you could divide your week
a few ddays you network, look for funding, go over the books
another few days you develop your technology or market it
It will take time
it will take effort
I also saw that there is a market for anyone who is looking to sell something

Look at which products needs ads and which dont
How does montblanc announce a new pen


When you start building a new firm
Of course you wont make the big bucks on day one
Two things are important
How long will it take you to break even
How long will it take you to match a generic salary
After that you start scaling
In vc you have access to incredible amounts of capital which are used to speed up your growth significantly

If you want a high caliber life you need high caliber people
Where are the high caliber people doing
Why?
A smart man knows what they are doing
A visionary one knows why they are doing it
Where to find the high caliber people
Where are the visionaries
You find academics in universities
You find experienced engineers in companies
Where do you find visionaries?
You look at your class and you dont see them
Ok you can see them
It is the eyes
It is the ambition curiosity and passion

VCnin bir günü: fon toplama, halihazırdaki yatırıları maintainleme, yeni yatırım bulma
robot yok şu an yatırım alan, 20x etkisi yok çünkü
1e 1 kafa yoruyosun partnerlerle, girişim görüşmelerinde yer alıyosun

what does point b explicitly look like?
what is the road from point a to point b explicitly look like?
At some point you need to let some parts of your business to be done by others better than you
Automate the process and scale

Ycombinator startup school?

Just make something 1 or 2 people will love and  use
Then iterate on it iterate on it and iterate on it
What is it, Who's it for, What problem does it solve, Does it solve it well?
Either have a good co-founder that you know you can work with through hard times
Have you ever gone camping in the storm with this guy
Other than that it is better being a solo founder than being a cofounder that the investor can understand you wont be able to work with
solo founders usually like build the whole first version themselves
Dont obsess over perfection, iterate in front of users. Dont not ship, ship and fix. (Problems in shipping)
Have a clear sense of your direction
What investors look for in you : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4cDCl4cS5xY&ab_channel=JomaTech


Pick up a problem around you that you understand
You usually need to see a weirdly specific problem
and you need life experience to see that
which is not always found in students going for startups

i will have many opportunities to work for others
now work for myself


Entraya ne zaman başlanır? Whenever you have the guts and the idea.


eliminate, automate, designate
eliminate the unnecessary jobs
automate everything with software
dellegate anything left

You gotta believe that what you do has value

M.Çağatay Sipahioğlu, [24/02/2022 00:09]
american genius: branding

problem>opportunity>solution as motivation

WHO IS YOUR CUSTOMER???

So you can get feedback as soon as possible

When there is a gold rush, dont go digging for gold, sell shovels








Bill Gates: Internet is a platform for publishing information demiş
bundan anlanacak şey ok basit aslında
ama geri dönüp bundan anlanması gereken şeyden başka bir şey anla
mesela bugün bilgi paylaşmak için mi kullanıyoruz halen veya bilgi paylaşmak için nasıl daha iyi kullanabiliriz


Income Types
	Earned income (From a job)
	Profit income (From trading)
	Interest income (From lending money)
	Royalty income (From lending your idea)
	Dividend income (From owning stocks)
	Rental income (From owning property)
	Capital gains (From your assets increasing in value)
	Residual income (When you continue to get paid after your work is done. Online courses etc.)

A dream written down with a date becomes a goal.
A goal broken down into steps becomes a plan.
A plan backed by action becomes reality.

Be your own boss asap (Bill Gates)
There are people less qualifeied than you, doing the things you want to do, because they believe in themselves and take action. (Jack Ma)
The biggest risk is not taking any risks. (Zuckerberg)
When something is important enough, you do it even if the odds are not in your favor. (Musk)
Money without free time is worthless, free time without money is pointless.
Stress comes from ignoring things that you shouldn't be ignoring. Be stubborn on vision but flexible on details. (Bezos)
Use your 20s to learn how to make money, start a business, invest in yourself, get valuable skills.
Rich is measured in dollars, wealth is measured in time.



Out of 7 billon, 1.7B work in sevice, 1.4 in agriculture, 0.8 in industry. Rest are too young or too old to work.
Use high risk tools smartly to build your wealth, reinvest into low risk dividend stocks to use your wealth.
Imagine playing monopoly and never buying anything that made money, just colelcting 200$ a you pass go. This is the usual employee's life.
Just take the next step you can see.
If you don't find a way to make money while you sleep, you will work until you die.
Only attach yourself to a mission, not to people, companies or projects.
Either learn or earn. Either is fine, both is best, but if neither quit

Put your money to work. You can't get rich by storing your money. Invest in appreciating assets.
Rich people buy what makes them more money, poor people lose money when buying something.
You are not born to work for others all your life, that would be modern slavery. (A simple blacksmith in the middle ages had his own business.)
Become financiallly literate.
Never be afraid to take calculated risks. Those who play it safe never make it big. (Poker oynamak lazım)
Dream big, play with heart.

Buffet
Never depend on a single income. Make investments, create more sources.
Spend what is left after saving.
Never test the depth of the river with both feet.
No matter how great the effort some things just take time. You can't make a baby in one month by getting 9 women pregnant.
Pick your friends who are better than you.


Yeni girişimler çok niche, baya 3 layer deepte yatan problemleri çözüyor
UPGRADING SUBSTANDARD VIDEO MEETINGS INTO HIGHLY ENGAGING SESSIONS
Wtf yani
Ben zoom var ya der geçerim mesela
Entrepreneurship is about doing what it takes 10 years in 2 years with capital investment
it is taking a shit ton of risks and playing like you cant lose
Very interesting approach
I am not a risk taker though


Mathematicalize it make take risks with good possibilities

MVP: Minimum viable productla

Smaller homes gives cozy and safe feel
Bigger ones dont

Hangi firmayı kurarsan kur, başarılı bir şekilde kök salman 5 yıl alıcak en az
O zaman şimdi başlarsak 2027'de ready to serve
at my prime
2 yıl sonra başlarsak 2029 oluyor
tek olay tabi burda hangi firmayı kurcağını bilmek

Tarihten marka koklulugu ve marka adlarindan cok kazaniyor bati dunyasi
Yoksa turkiyede is yapsan hayvan gibi is de yaparsin

Bak erto 2-3 sene önce 0dan başladı ama consistently yaptığı için yatırımdan reliably 10k kazanabiliyo çok da güzel trompet çalıyo
En başta hiç beklentisi yoktu
ama biraz risk alcan iş kurucan
You are getting soft again, gotta earn money, gotta get ambitious

Simplicity sells. Experts simplify. Con artists complicate.

Success in life is 20% knowledge and 80% willingness to act.

Everything has been done before, you gotta do things better than they are being done right now.

Japanese never use quality in their marketing. People don't form opinions on quality by marketing, they form their opinions on their experience with the products.

About selling a pen: You don't desribe and sell a pen. Only rational thing you can do is. Star asking them questions. The key to selling is finding our What your client needs, values.

Look for problems and look for solutions, then money will be thrown at you. You solve a million dollar problem a million dollars will be thrown at you, you solve a billion dollar problem a billion will.
Must be automatable and scalable.

To me individual behaviour is much more logical and understandable then collective behaviour
That s why I dont develop tech for the collective
The upside of this is solving individual problems are harder and solutions are sold for higher price tags
The downside is of course there are less individuals with problems then collective's problems
A great idea should start from an individual's problem but when you try to scale it to the collective it should be the collective's problem too. That is how you know you struck gold with your problem and your solution.
Therefore get to know individuals and get to know their problems. Then see of which's solutions are infinitely scalable to the collective. That is your metric of having found the right problem.



CHAPTER: INVESTING (After Rich)
Buy 1$ for 0.66$


CHAPTER MENTALITY
A loser is someone who is so afraid of trying they dont even try



How to sell anything to anyone
Dont sell logic, sell emotions and desires
Dont let the prospect lead the conversation
Push emotional triggers find where it hurts.
Use poweful words, build certainity in the customers mind.
SHOW them how you are going to make their lives easier.

Compounding powers the world.
Make your investments on if that is going to change people’s lives
Don’t buy anything more than 10% of what you got in the bank.
You get paid in proportion to the difficulty of the problem you solve.
If you can be trained to do a job then so will others and you are replaceable.


Hire people who do smart things without needing anyone to explain to them how to be.

1/10th of market cost is gold. (When you are competing for the best price)

Be first, be smart or cheat.
Every technology ages, the only thing that doesn’t age is connecting with people.
İyi bir mühendisi yönetici yaparsan hem kötü bir yöneticinin olur hem de iyi bir mühendisten olursun
I want more ideas to reject (BUsiness quote)



If you're starting a small business with a loan you're a moron. There are so many uncertainities but the one constant will be the loan.


When a creator you will become rich because you are cranking content nonstop, period.
And depending on what it takes to create your content you can easily not have any time to spend your money
Like for the hot ones think of the amount of research he has to go through every time


Investmenttan para nasıl çekilir
Mesela kısa dönem borsa oynuyosun veya kripto
10k girdin
100'e çııktın
eğer devam edersen 1M'e çıkabilirsin
ama aynı zamanda 90k'yı kaybetme riskini göze alıyosun
Hem gelirini harcırak olarak cebine koyup hem de yatırım kapitalini düşürmemenin yolu ne


Wealth is built through practicality not passion

Selling is helping not convincing -Mark Cuban





